It's time to celebrate because you just finished your first data structure and they're going to get
more and more fun.
But you see here that we've learned to complete our mental model of data structures.
I promised you that by the end of this course this whole diagram is going to make sense and we've finished
a small part of it.
The array's we talked about static and dynamic arrays we talked about the big O complexity and how dynamic
arrays can sometimes have O and pens because while sometimes we have to double up or expand our memory
we also talked about how strings and questions regarding strings can be treated very similar to array
questions.
Where you just convert them to an array and then join them back up and return a string.
Answer that need and there's a few other points for arrays that we're going to talk about when we get
into algorithms.
But by now you should take a look at the bego cheat sheet and understand why the array data structure
has these big numbers.
And understand when an array is a good thing to use.
One thing you'll note when it comes to race especially when we get to algorithms is that they are really
really good at having sorted data when it comes to sorting arrays are awesome because they're in memory
in sequential order according to their index.
Now before I go onto the slide you composed the video.
Think about when you would want to use an array when you would it.
Because in about five seconds I'm going to show you the pros and cons.
So pause the video and the answer to when you should use an array well.
Here it is.
Arrays are great for fast lookups.
That is just accessing information where you know which index you want to look at.
It's really fast that push and pop.
So I think things at the end of an array or taking things out at the end of the array.
And of course because it's ordered having something that is ordered and close to each other in memory
makes it really fast.
However it has slow inserts and deletes because we have to shift to race whenever it's not at the very
end of the array.
And then finally if using static arrays it's fixed size.
That means sometimes you have to declare the memory ahead of time and how large of an array you want.
But that can be avoided if we use some of the more modern languages that have dynamic arrays.
Also I just realized that this smiley face kind of looks like a crazy person but this is meant to be
good.
This is good.
This scary little icon.
That's bad.
OK.
I think we get it now.
We're going to come back to raise because a lot of other data structures we're going to talk about later
on like queues and stacks are related to race.
But for now I want to get into other data structures because we still have a few to go through.
I'll see in the next one.